GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE NOVEMBER 18
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY A PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
I PLEDGE
ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA AND TO THE
REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT STANDS
ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY,
JUSTICE FOR ALL WHAT OUR CLARK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
COUNTERSNIPER DISH HERE
COUNCILMAN HARRISON HERE.
COUNCILMAN WATSON HERE.
COUNCILMAN ALEC HERE, COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA HERE.
>> COUNCILMAN GARCIA ONE HERE.
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE.
COUNCILOR IRE HERE, CUSTOMER
ACTION HERE.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS HERE,
COUNCILMAN CORNELL HERE WE HAVE
A QUORUM NOW THE MOTION PLEASE
TO APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA OR
FAVOR OR OPPOSE THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED TO HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATION TODAY FROM OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
NO MAYOR.
WE DO HAVE A SINGLE
INTRODUCTION.
MR. THOMPSON DIRECTOR THOMPSON
FROM THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY WITH THEIR PERIODIC
UPDATE.
YOU HAVE THE CON YOU SO NICE
WHEN I SEE THAT.
SO HELLO EVERYBODY.
TONIGHT I WANT TO GIVE YOU ALL
AN UPDATE ON THE DIVAS ELEVATE
PROGRAM.
THIS IS OUR PUBLIC ART AND
PLACEMAKING PROGRAM THAT OUR
BOARD APPROVED IN JUNE.
SO I WANT TO BRIEFLY TALK ABOUT
THE PROJECTS THAT ARE UNDERWAY
IN ROUND ONE OF THESE PROJECTS.
>> BUT WHAT I WANT TO FOCUS
MORE ON IS A NEW PROJECT
OPPORTUNITY THAT I REALLY WANT
TO SHARE WITH YOU.
>> SO ROUND ONE OF OUR ELEVATE
PROJECTS INCLUDE A SCAVENGER
HUNT THROUGHOUT OUR DOWNTOWN.
WE ARE WORKING WITH DAVID ZENN
ON HAVING 10 INSTALLATIONS IN
PLACE BY SPRING.
YOU ALL KNOW I'M SURE DAVID'S
WORK HE TYPICALLY WORKS IN
CHALK.
HE WILL BE USING A PERMANENT
MATERIAL.
SO WE'RE UNDERWAY WITH THAT.
WE HAVE A SUNSHADE PROJECT AT
THE FARMER'S MARKET PLAZA.
THIS PROJECT WE'RE WORKING WITH
THE ANN ARBOR ART CENTER.
THEY ISSUE THE RFP ON OUR
BEHALF.
WE GOT A NUMBER OF GREAT
SUBMISSIONS AND THE TIMELINE ON
THAT PROJECT RIGHT NOW IS THAT
THE ART CENTER IS NARROWING
DOWN THOSE SUBMISSIONS AND
THOSE SUBMISSIONS WILL BE
HANDED OVER TO THE SELECTION
COMMITTEE.
WE ALSO HAVE A LARGE WAYFINDING
PROJECT THAT WILL HELP PEOPLE
NAVIGATE FROM THE AN ASHLEY
PARKING STRUCTURE TO CARRY TOWN
IN THE FARMER'S MARKET AGAIN
WORKING WITH THE ART CENTER ON
THIS PROJECT IT'S FOLLOWING THE
SAME TIMELINE AS THE SUNSHADE
AND WE ANTICIPATE GETTING
PROPOSALS TO OUR SELECTION
COMMITTEE VERY SOON.
>> WE ALSO HAVE A MURAL PROJECT
AT LIBERTY PARK PLAZA.
THIS IS A COLLABORATION WITH
THE CITY PARKS DEPARTMENT AGAIN
WORKING WITH THE ART CENTER ON
THIS ONE AS WELL.
THE RFP HAS BEEN ISSUED AND I
BELIEVE SUBMISSIONS ARE DUE
FIRST WEEK IN DECEMBER.
SO WE'LL BE MOVING FORWARD WITH
THAT AS WELL.
SEPARATELY WE HAVE A TEMPORARY
LIGHT AND SOUND INSTALLATION
COMING TO LIBERTY PARK PLAZA
MEJI JANUARY.
THAT INSTALLATION WILL REMAIN
IN LIBERTY PARK PLAZA UNTIL
MID-MARCH AND THEN FINALLY WE
HAVE IN THE SOUTH UNIVERSITY
NEIGHBORHOOD A YET TO BE
DETERMINED INTERACTIVE PROJECT.
>> WE'RE STILL KIND OF IN THE
EXPLORATION PHASE OF THAT.
BUT WHAT I REALLY WANT TO TALK
TO YOU ABOUT TONIGHT IS A MURAL
PROJECT ON ELM STREET WHERE WE
WOULD LIKE TO HONOR THE
HISTORIC BLACK BUSINESS
DISTRICT THAT EXISTED ALONG
THIS CORRIDOR.
SO THIS IS BUILDING ON THE WORK
THAT THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN
CULTURAL AND HISTORICAL MUSEUM
AND THE ANN HARBOR DISTRICT
LIBRARY HAVE DONE WITH THE
LIVING ORAL HISTORY PROJECT.
AND IF YOU HAVE NOT CHECKED OUT
THIS PROJECT, I ENCOURAGE YOU
TO DO SO.
IT'S ON THE LIBRARY'S WEBSITE.
>> THEY HAVE OVER 50 INTERVIEWS
WITH AFRICAN-AMERICAN RESIDENTS
FROM BOTH ANN ARBOR
AND
YPSILANTI WHO HAVE LIVED HERE
EITHER ALL OF THEIR LIVES OR
MOST OF THEIR LIVES AND THEY
TALK ABOUT NEIGHBORHOODS IN OUR
COMMUNITY THAT WERE
PREDOMINANTLY BLACK
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THEY TALK ABOUT THE BLACK
BUSINESS DISTRICT AND THEY
REALLY SHARE WHAT THEY'VE
WITNESSED, WHAT THEY'RE
EXPERIENCES HAVE BEEN AND THEIR
CONTRIBUTIONS TO OUR COMMUNITY.
IT'S A BEAUTIFUL PROJECT AND
ANOTHER PIECE OF THAT PROJECT
IS A WALKING TOUR.
SO I'LL DRAW YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MAP AND THE NUMBER ONE ON
THAT WALKING TOUR IS THE BLACK
BUSINESS DISTRICT THAT WAS ON
AND STREET.
SO WHAT WE WANT TO DO IS REALLY
ELEVATE THAT HISTORY AND
INSTALL MURALS ALONG AND STREET
HONORING SOME OF THESE
ENTREPRENEURS AND COMMUNITY
LEADERS.
SO THERE'S A KIND OF AN EXAMPLE
PROJECT IN GRAND RAPIDS CALLED
WOMEN'S WAY AND GRAND RAPIDS
THROUGH ART ASPIRES TO ELEVATE
THE HISTORICAL NARRATIVES
OF EXCEPTIONAL LOCAL LEADERS
AND IN GRAND RAPIDS CASE THEY
CHOSE WOMEN AND WHAT THEY'RE
DOING OR HAVE DONE IS THE
MURALS ARE INSTALLED IN ALLEYS
AND THEN THOSE ALLEYS ARE NAMED
AFTER THE WOMEN.
SO WE THOUGHT THIS WAS ANOTHER
GREAT PROJECT.
>> BUT HERE IN ANN ARBOR WE
REALLY FEEL LIKE WE HAVE THIS
UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY ON ANN
STREET BECAUSE WE HAVE SO MANY
MUNICIPAL PROPERTIES ON THE
STREET SO AS WE AS STAFF WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THIS PROJECT WE
REALIZED FIRST WE NEED
PERMISSION TO USE THE CITY
PROPERTY.
SO I REACHED OUT TO MR. TONY
AND HE ENTHUSIASTICALLY
SUPPORTED THE PROJECT, GAVE US
THE GREEN LIGHT TO GO AHEAD.
SO WHAT YOU'RE LOOKING AT HERE
IS LOOKING EAST ON THE STREET
AND YOU CAN SEE THE FIRE
STATION SIDE OF THAT WALL KIND
OF A GREAT CANVAS FOR SOME FOR
A MURAL OR TO THE CITY HALL
PROPERTY WHERE WE ARE RIGHT NOW
HAS SOME HAS SOME GREAT SPACE
AND THEN LOOKING WEST AT THE
END OF THE STREET YOU'VE GOT
THE PARKING STRUCTURE.
YOU ALSO HAVE SOME MUNICIPAL
BUILDINGS AND PRIVATE BUILDINGS
THAT WOULD LEND THEMSELVES TO
MURALS AS WELL.
BUT WE WANT TO START WITH OUR
CITY OWNED PROPERTIES.
THIS PROJECT IS IN ITS INFANCY.
I HAVE TALKED WITH THE ANN
ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY AND
OF COURSE AS ALWAYS THEY ARE A
WILLING AND WONDERFUL PARTNER.
I'VE ALSO BEEN IN CONVERSATIONS
WITH JOYCE HUNTER FROM THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN CULTURAL AND
HISTORICAL MUSEUM IN TALKING
WITH HER ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
OF JOYCE AND THE MUSEUM ACTING
IN AN ADVISORY CAPACITY ON THIS
PROJECT AND OUR CONVERSATIONS
HAVE BEEN VERY POSITIVE.
SO WE'RE EXCITED ABOUT THIS
PROJECT.
THIS IS ALL I HAVE RIGHT NOW
BUT KIND OF WANTED TO GIVE YOU
A SNEAK PEEK OF WHAT WE'RE
THINKING ABOUT AND THAT'S ALL I
HAVE.
I WANT SEE YOU ALL UNTIL TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY.
WELL THANK YOU FOR COMING.
>> WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME PUBLIC
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL IN THE
COMMUNITY ON MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMON RESERVE TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED
PLEASE.
CONCLUDING REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS ADAM
JUSZKIEWICZ MR. DISCOVERED JUST
JOINING US ON THE
STREET.
JUST GO AHEAD.
>> HI THIS IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ
CALLING FROM THE FOURTH WARD
FIRST I'D JUST LIKE TO TO
WELCOME COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK
AND CONGRATULATE ALL OF THE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN REELECTED
TO COUNCIL AND GET INTO THIS SO
SHOULD BE FAIRLY BRIEF.
I'D LIKE TO EXPRESS MY
APPRECIATION AND ENTHUSIASTIC
SUPPORT FOR SIA FOR THE NOLA
ROAD IMPROVEMENTS I'M GLAD TO
SEE THIS LARGE SWATH OF THE
CITY CONNECTED TO DOWNTOWN BY A
SAFE PROTECTED BIKEWAY.
I'M GLAD TO SEE WE WILL BE
PUTTING CURBS BETWEEN CARS AND
BIKES.
WHILE I UNDERSTAND THE CONCERNS
SOME HAVE ABOUT US BEING A TWO
WAY CYCLE TRACK VERSUS SEPARATE
ONE WAY CYCLE TRACKS STAFF HAS
MADE CLEAR THAT THERE'S NO ROOM
FOR THE LATTER AND THIS IS
GOING TO BE WAY BETTER THAN THE
PAINTED BICYCLE GUTTERS THAT
ARE THERE NOW I LOOK FORWARD TO
ITS CONSTRUCTION AND I HOPE
THIS IS THE FIRST OF MANY ALL
AGES AND ABILITIES ROUTES
EXTENDING BEYOND DOWNTOWN.
I ALSO REALLY LOVE THAT WE WILL
BE REDUCING THE SPEED LIMIT AND
ADDING TRAFFIC CALMING AS PART
OF THIS PROJECT.
I GREW UP IN THE NO KRO
NEIGHBORHOOD AND WESTWARD AND
WENT TO FORSAYTH MIDDLE SCHOOL
BACK THEN MILLER DIDN'T HAVE
ANY CROSSWALKS NOT A GREAT
SITUATION FOR KIDS WALKING HOME
FROM SCHOOL.
IT'S CERTAINLY A BETTER
SITUATION THESE DAYS BUT STILL
NOT GREAT.
I'M GLAD TO SEE THAT THIS
PROJECT WILL IMPROVE THINGS FOR
PEDESTRIANS AS WELL AS CYCLISTS
.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO EXPRESS MY
SUPPORT FOR SETU WHICH
CLARIFIES THE RULES AROUND
PLACING WHEELIE BINS AND BIKE
LANES.
I THOUGHT THIS WAS ALREADY THE
CASE BUT I'M GLAD TO SEE THIS.
I HOPE THIS ALSO MEANS WE HAVE
A CLEAR CATEGORY AND WAY TO FIX
IT FOR REPORTING THIS.
SPEAKING OF AID TO FIX IT, SOME
PEOPLE SEEM TO LOVE TO USE IT
AS A PLATFORM TO ARGUE WITH AND
INSULT EACH OTHER.
I THINK IT WOULD BE A GOOD IDEA
FOR THE CITY TO LOOK INTO WHAT
CAN BE DONE TO CURB THIS
PROBLEM.
PERHAPS ONLY CITY STAFF IN THE
ORIGINAL SUBMITTER SHOULD BE
ABLE TO COMMENT ON TROUBLED
TICKETS FOR CERTAIN CATEGORIES
OR PERHAPS SOME SORT
OF MODERATION IS NEEDED.
I DON'T THINK WE WANT OUR
CITY'S TROUBLED TICKET SYSTEM
TO TURN INTO A PLATFORM FOR
TEXAS CITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEXANDER
LINDSTRM
.
MISS LINDSTROM IS JOINING US ON
ZOOME
CALL COLLER WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN THREE,
TWO THREE.
>> GO AHEAD.
AUTHORITARIAN.
THIS IS AN INTERVENTION I'M
CALLING IN FROM WHITESIDE'S.
I AM ALSO CALLING IN TO EXPRESS
SUPPORT FOR BUILDING A TWO WAY
BIKE LANE ON MILLER AND WHILE I
MAY SPEAK TO THE IMPORTANCE
OF MILLER FOR COMMUTING GETTING
INTO TOWN WHICH ARE BOTH GREAT,
I WANT TO HIGHLIGHT THE
IMPORTANCE MILLER AT THE RIGHT
OUT OF TOWN FOR RECREATIONAL
CYCLIST GRANTLY MILLER, MOOT
COURT IS ONE OF THE SAFEST AND
LEGAL WAYS TO GET TO HERE ON
RIVER DRIVE WHICH IS A POPULAR
ROUTE FOR CYCLISTS IN THE AREA
AND THIS IS SOMETHING SEVERAL
LOCAL CLUBS TAKE ADVANTAGE OF .
I AM ALWAYS UP MILLER MANY
TIMES A WEEK AND I SEE MANY
OTHER CYCLISTS ON THIS ROAD
BECAUSE IT'S A KEY WAY TO DRIVE
BUT ALSO SEVERAL OTHER
RECREATION AREAS AND I'M
COMFORTABLE USING THE
UNPROTECTED BIKE LANE.
I REGULARLY HAVE CONFLICTS ON
MILLER WITH CARS PARTICULARLY
WHEN APPROACHING 7TH AVENUE AND
I BELIEVE THE PROTECTED BIKE
LANE AND THE PRODUCE SPEEDS ARE
GOING TO HELP IMPROVE THESE
INTERACTIONS AND MAKE THEM
SAFER AND MORE ACCESSIBLE FOR
EVERYONE.
I WANT TO THANK CITY COUNCIL
AND STAFF FOR CONTINUED
LEADERSHIP IN MAKING ANN ARBOR
MORE CYCLING FRIENDLY AND I
ENCOURAGE YOU TO VOTE YES AND
KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK.
>> THANK YOU.
YOU OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TYLER
CRAIG
.
HELLO.
HI TYLER CRAIG.
I LIVE OFF OF MILLIRON.
I WAS JUST COMING IN TO GIVE
SUPPORT TO THE MILLER ROAD
PROJECT.
I CAN SAY THAT PROBABLY A SUPER
USER OF MILLER AVENUE ACTUALLY
LIVE ON MILLER AVENUE.
I BIKE TO WORK EVERY DAY ON
MOWER AVENUE A MARATHONERS RUN
ON MILLER AVENUE AND I WALK MY
DOG ON IT.
SO IF YOU DRIVE DOWN MILLER
AVENUE SOMETIME NEXT WEEK YOU
WILL PROBABLY SEE ME THERE.
AND SO I FEEL LIKE MILLER
AVENUE IS KIND OF LIKE A
STEALTHILY DANGEROUS ROAD IN
WHICH THE STREET STREETS TO WHY
THE SPEED IS TOO HIGH AND THE
BIKE LANES ARE PRETTY MUCH
NONEXISTENT.
SO PRETTY MUCH ON A WEEKLY
BASIS I DO KIND OF FEAR FOR MY
SAFETY ALMOST EVERY SINGLE WEEK
AT LEAST ONE TIME.
FOR INSTANCE, JUST RECENTLY ME
AND A ALTEC MECHANIC
SERVICEPERSON GOT INTO IT ON
KNOW ON THE ROAD BECAUSE THEY
WERE COMING UP BEHIND ON BEYLER
AT THE INTERSECTION OF 7TH AND
MILLER AND THAT CAUSED A BIT
OF THEY DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO DO
BECAUSE THE BIKE LANE VANISHES
AND WE ALL MERGE TOGETHER AND
I'M HOPING THAT A SEPARATE BIKE
LANE WOULD HELP KIND OF SOLVE
THAT IN WHICH NOW THE DRIVERS
KNOW THAT WE DON'T HAVE TO
MERGE AND GET THOSE INCIDENCES
OF KIND OF CONFLICT ON THE
ROAD.
IT'S ALSO A LITTLE BIT TOO FAST
THE SPEED LIMIT.
SO I LIVE UP NEAR THE NATURE
PRESERVE AREA AND THIS PAST
SUMMER AT THE END OF AUGUST
THEY HAD PUT SPEEDOMETERS ON
THE SPEED SIGNS UP THERE
OUTSIDE THE MILLER PRESERVE AND
SWEAR TO YOU THAT NOBODY WAS
GOING LESS THAN THIRTY FIVE
MILES AN HOUR THE AVERAGE SPEED
WAS FORTY FIVE TO OFTENTIMES UP
TO FIFTY FIVE MILES AN HOUR.
MILLER AVENUE BECAUSE THERE'S A
DOWNHILL SO BIG OPEN WIDE ROAD
NO REAL WAY TO SLOW OR STOP
ANYBODY COMING DOWN THE ROAD SO
PRETTY MUCH AS SOON AS YOU HIT
MABEL AND COME STRAIGHT FOR
SEVENTH IT'S A HIGHWAY AND
PEOPLE TREAT IT AS SUCH
ESPECIALLY IN THE MORNING FOR
RUSH HOUR.
AND SO AGAIN, YOU KNOW, I'M
HOPING THAT WE VOTE YES ON THIS
KIND OF MOVE FORWARD HELP
PROTECT KIDS IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
STUDENTS I GO TO SCHOOL THERE
AND PEOPLE LIKE MYSELF THAT USE
IT OFTEN.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS VICTORIA
GREEN
.
GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT OUR
BIKEL AIDS.
I AM VICTORIA GREEN.
I OWN A CAR AND BICYCLE HERE IN
ANN ARBOR AND I HAVE LONG BEEN
A RIDER WITH BIKE LANES VERY
HAPPILY BUT I WANT TO MAKE SURE
THE BIKE LANES THAT WE BUILD
WHEN WE INVEST IN BUILDING THAT
THE USEABLE AND I WOULD LIKE TO
SUGGEST THAT OUR STATE STREET
BIKE LANES ARE NOT USABLE.
AND LET ME TALK ABOUT
WHY I
ONLY RIDE FOUR BLOCKS OF IT
ROUTINELY RIGHT AROUND GRANGER
AND 43 PERCENT OF THE TIME THAT
I RIDE IN THOSE BIKE LANES THE
BIKE LANE IS BLOCKED AND I TAKE
THE ROAD.
SO WE HAVE BUILT IN EFFECT FOR
ME PART TIME BIKE LANES.
SO WHY WHY AM I EXITING BIKE
LANE SO TWENTY SEVEN PERCENT
OF THE TIME AND I USE THOSE
BIKE LANES THERE'S A MOTORCYCLE
IN IT AND FORTY PERCENT OF THE
TIME WHEN I'M IN THOSE BIKE
LANES THERE IS A CAN BLOCKING
IT.
YOU GUYS HAVE YOU KNOW THOSE
BLOCKS OF STATE STREET THERE'S
A LOT OF TRASH CANS THROUGH
THERE AND THEY TEND TO PERSIST
A LONG TIME AND EVERYONE'S
ALWAYS LIKE OH YOU CAN JUST GO
AROUND 40 PERCENT OF THE TIME,
NOT TWO PERCENT OF THE TIME.
NOT ONE PERCENT OF THE TIME.
FORTY PERCENT OF THE TIME
THEY'RE BLOCKED BY CANS.
>> SO I'M SUPER EXCITED ABOUT
MILLER FOR FOLKS WHO ARE ON
THEIR YOU NEED TO MAKE SURE
THOSE BIKE LANES ARE USABLE.
SO WHAT'S PREVENTING THEM FROM
BEING USABLE TODAY?
THERE'S THE TRASH CANS.
THANK YOU TO KIDS WHO ARE
ALREADY ON TOP OF THAT PROBLEM
.
THE OTHER THING I WOULD SUGGEST
TO YOU THOUGH IS I WAS A LITTLE
BIT FRUSTRATED THAT WE HAVE A
NON SORT OF FEEL LIKE POLICY TO
ME THAT NEEDS FIXING HERE YOU
ALL HAVE ESTABLISHED POLICY
WHICH IS THAT BIKE LANES ARE
FOR BIKES BUT THERE'S A GAP IN
THE WRITINGS SUCH THAT NO ONE'S
BEEN ENFORCING ALL THE TIMES WE
HAVE BEEN REPORTING THAT THOSE
BIKE LANES ARE BLOCKED AND THAT
WE CAN'T USE THEM.
SO IT FEELS TO ME LIKE YOU NEED
SOMEONE WHO IS PAYING ATTENTION
TO THE COMPLEX REASONS THAT
THINGS AREN'T USABLE, NEED A
PRODUCT MANAGER OR A SERVICE
OWNER.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S
ENFORCEMENT.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S LAW THAT'S
NEEDED.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S JUST
PROCEDURE OR IF SOMEONE NEEDS
TO TALK TO SOMEONE.
BUT WHEN SOMETHING IS ONLY
AVAILABLE SIXTY PERCENT THE
TIME TO BIKE RIDE IN FOUR
BLOCKS THERE'S SOMETHING THAT'S
GONE WRONG AND I DON'T ACTUALLY
THINK IT'S POLICY MAKING THAT
YOU ALL NEED TO ADDRESS IT JUST
SOMEONE WHO NEEDS TO HAVE THE
RANGE OF RESPONSIBILITY AND THE
TIME TO SAY HEY, I'M SEEING A
PROBLEM HERE.
I'M HEARING THE PEOPLE
REPORTING THIS PROBLEM WHO CAN
ACTIVELY WORK ON SOLUTIONS SO
THAT YOU CAN WORK ON POLICY
THAT MAKES SENSE.
THANK YOU ALL SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRANDON MJF
.
HELLO, BRANDON.
JEFF, I LIVE IN THE FOURTH WARD
.
I AM ALSO HERE TO SPEAK ABOUT
SEET FOR THE MILLSTREET
BIKEWAY.
I AM SUPER HAPPY TO SEE THIS
FINALLY COMING INTO EXISTENCE.
I I HOPE THAT IS THE FIRST
OF MANY THAT WE GET TO DO
AROUND THE CITY.
I KNOW THAT THE D.A. HAS DONE
GOOD WORK TO GET BIDIRECTIONAL
PROTECTED CYCLEWAYS DOWNTOWN
BUT IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
THIS IS THE FIRST ONE OUTSIDE
OF DOWNTOWN.
I WOULD ALSO LOVE TO SEE US DO
SOME SOME MORE QUICK BUILD
STUFF TO GET PREFAB CURBS INTO
BUFFER'S AND THERE'S A LOT
OF THERE'S A LOT OF PLACES
WHERE PEOPLE ARE JUST LIKE
PARKED IN BIKE LANES AND AND I
DID NOT I DON'T KNOW.
FORTY THREE PERCENT IS THE
NUMBER FOR ME BUT I DO OFTEN
ENCOUNTER OBSTRUCTIONS IN THE
BIKE LANE WHEN I WHEN I RIDE UP
AND DOWN PACARD SO THE THE NEW
REGULATIONS FOR TRASHMEN STUFF
IS GREAT.
I KNOW THAT THE SOLID WASTE
PEOPLE HAVE STICKERS THAT THEY
WILL PUT ON TRASH CANS FROM
TIME TO TIME.
I HAVE I HAVE I HAVE NOT SEEN
THEM BE PLACED ON REPEAT
OFFENDERS CONSISTENTLY SO YOU
KNOW I SORT AGREE THAT THERE'S
PROBABLY SOME SORT LOGISTICS
STUFF THAT NEEDS TO HAPPEN TO
MAKE THAT STUFF AT WORK.
BUT THANKS FOR BOTH THE NEW NEW
PROJECTED CYCLE STUFF AND FOR
THE CHANGES TO THE BIKE LANES
AND WELCOME HERE YOU BAKE
COOKIES IS THAT YEAH.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HENRY
HERSKOVITS.
>> GOOD EVENING.
I'D LIKE TO THANK A FEW OF YOU
WHO HAVE COMMENTED ON PREVIOUS
DISCUSSIONS AND HAVE ENGAGED
WITH ME IN SHORT EMAIL
EXCHANGES IN THE PAST.
SOME OF YOU HAVE TURNED YOUR
BACK ON ME AS I SPEAK AND I ASK
YOU TO THINK OF ANY OTHER TOPIC
THAT WOULD CAUSE YOU TO DO SO.
I HAVE WITNESSED SPEAKERS FROM
THIS PLATFORM YELL AND SCREAM
AT YOU, CALL YOU NAMES SINGLE
YOU OUT, ACCUSE YOU OF ALL
SORTS OF THINGS YET YOU DON'T
TURN YOUR BACKS ON THEM.
WHAT IS SO ODIOUS ABOUT THIS
TOPIC THAT CAUSES YOU TO DO SO
?
ALTHOUGH I'M CLEARLY IN THE
MINORITY WITH THOSE CRITICAL
OF STANDARD WORLD WAR TWO
HISTORY, I'M NOT ALONE THOUGH
NOT PART OF MAINSTREAM MEDIA
THERE ARE QUITE A FEW
JOURNALISTS PODCASTERS,
BLOGGERS AND AUTHORS WHO ARE
ADVANCING REVISIONIST POSITIONS
.
WAL KING IS ONE SUCH WRITER.
HIS RECENT ARTICLE IS AUSCHWITZ
SIX FACTS AND SEVEN QUESTIONS
WRITTEN ABOUT A MONTH AGO.
>> IT'S SOMEWHAT OF A TECHNICAL
ARTICLE WRITTEN FROM HIS
CHEMISTRY BACKGROUND AND
HIGHLIGHTS THE FEASIBILITY
OF USING UNHEATED ZYKLON B TO
KILL HUMANS EN MASSE IN POLAND
WHERE THE AVERAGE TEMPERATURE
IS FAR BELOW THE GASES BOILING
POINT.
BUT FOR ME WHAT IS PARTICLE
DOES IS EXPLAIN THE REASON TO
CHALLENGE THE HOLOCAUST
NARRATIVE NOT BECAUSE WALT IS A
VICIOUS PERSON NOT BECAUSE HE'S
A QUOTE ANTI-SEMITE NOT BECAUSE
HE WANTS ANYBODY TO DIE BUT
BECAUSE WELL WELL LET ME QUOTE
HIM.
I THINK IT IS IMPORTANT TO
REALIZE THAT ISRAEL WITH ITS
LONG HISTORY OF APPALLING
CONDUCT NOW CLEARLY HAVING
EMERGED AS THE WORLD'S MOST
ABOMINABLE BARBARIC TERRORIST
NATION FEELS WHOLLY
UNCONSTRAINED BY ANY
HUMANITARIAN NORMS BECAUSE
OF ITS SUPPOSED HISTORY
OF PERSECUTION AND THAT
EXPOSING THE CENTERPIECE
OF THAT HISTORY DEMONSTRABLE
FRAUD IS AN IMPORTANT STEP IN
AN OVERDUE ACT OF REINING IT IN
AND BRINGING ITS WAR CRIMINALS
TO JUSTICE.
I'VE ASKED COUNSEL BEFORE WHAT
OTHER ETHNIC OR RELIGIOUS
GENOCIDE PLACE IN GAZA ON OUR
WATCH OTHER THAN THE JEWISH
PEOPLE PERSONALLY I CONCLUDE
NONE.
YOU MAY HAVE OTHER OPINIONS.
CERTAINLY I WOULD RESPECT THEM
.
ONE GAINS RESPECT ONLY GIVING
RESPECT.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS COURT
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS MARK CORRIE.
I WANT TO INTRODUCE MYSELF.
I HAVE WAS PART THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN AND I JUST WANT TO GO
OVER MY BACKGROUND.
I'VE SERVED SIX YEARS AS A
PRECINCT DELEGATE.
I SORT OF STAY COMMITTED
DELEGATE TO THE GOP CONVENTION.
I SERVE THE DISTRICT
CONGRESSIONAL GOP COMMITTEEMAN
AND I'VE ALSO SERVED THE STATE
COMMITTEE UNDER OUR LEADER
RONALD WISER WHO IS OF NO
TOWNSHIP JUST WANT TO EVERYBODY
KNOW WE HAVE MAINTAINED
EXTENSIVE OUTREACH INTO MANY
COMMUNITIES SUCH AS BRAMNICK
DEARBORN, DEARBORN HEIGHTS AND
A LOT OF INROADS I KNOW TO VOTE
FOR TRUMP IN ANN ARBOR DIDN'T
GO UP AT ANY ANY GREAT EXTENT
AND I WANT TO BASICALLY EXTEND
AN OLIVE BRANCH OF PEACE TO YOU
INDICATING THAT ESSENTIALLY
DONALD TRUMP WAS THE ONE PERSON
WHO BROUGHT PEOPLE TOGETHER IN
WAYNE COUNTY.
WE HAD OUR OFFICE IN KRAMNIK
AND IT BROUGHT TO THE POLISH
THE MUSLIMS, THE ARABS, THE
BENGALIS, THE BLACKS, JEWISH
PEOPLE ALL CAME TO THE
HAMTRAMCK OFFICE ALL TOGETHER
IN UNISON.
I THINK WHAT YOU HAVE HERE IS A
SITUATION EVEN IN ISRAEL WHERE
60 PERCENT ISRAELIS SUPPORT THE
ELECTION OF DONALD TRUMP AND
HERE WE HAD THE ARAB MAJORITY
CITIES VOTE FOR DONALD TRUMP
AND I THINK IT'S TIME FOR
INTERPRETE TO VISIT THE LEADERS
TO VISIT OUR FACILITIES HERE.
THE WASHOE COUNTY REPUBLICAN
PARTY, THEIR COMMITTEE WHICH
DATES BACK THE OLDEST COMMITTEE
IN THE COUNTRY AND IN MICHIGAN
OF COURSE AND THAT CONTINUOUSLY
EXISTING AND I THINK WE OUGHT
TO LOOK AT SOME OF THE THEORIES
HERE.
I THINK MR. TRUMP HAS IS IS
GOING TO BRING PEACE TO THE
MIDDLE EAST.
THAT'S WHY I SUPPORT HIM.
I SUPPORTED THE THE BDS
RESOLUTION ARGUED OR WEEK AFTER
TRAFFIC WAS ADOPTED BY THE
MAYOR, GIULIANI MET WITH THE
PRESIDENT.
SO IN ESSENCE I BELIEVE WHAT WE
NEED HERE IS A SITUATION WHERE
ANN ARBOR EMBRACE TRUMP ISM AND
THE MAGGA MOVEMENT.
>> THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
TONIGHT I WANT TO TAKE A MOMENT
TO REFLECT ON THE IMPORTANT THE
IMPORTANCE OF THE WORK WE'RE
DOING HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
WE ARE A CITY THAT VALUES
INCLUSION, PROGRESS AND A
SHARED COMMITMENT TO BUILDING A
COMMUNITY WHERE EVERYONE
BELONGS.
>> RECENTLY EVENTS HAVE
REMINDED US THAT PROGRESS
REQUIRES VIGILANCE.
IT'S NOT ENOUGH TO BE A CITY
THAT PRIDES ITSELF ON MOVING
FORWARD.
WE MUST CONTINUE TO ENSURE THAT
OUR ACTIONS REFLECT THOSE
VALUES AND ARBOR HAS FACED
CHALLENGES BEFORE AND WE'VE
ALWAYS CHOSEN TO RISE ABOVE
TO
REJECT DIVISION AND FOCUS ON
SOLUTIONS THAT BENEFIT
EVERYONE.
>> OUR STRENGTH LIES IN OUR
ABILITY TO WORK TOGETHER TOWARD
SHARED GOALS WHETHER IT'S
EXPANDING HOUSING OPTIONS,
CREATING PATHWAYS FOR ECONOMIC
STABILITY OR INVESTING IN A
HEALTHIER, MORE SUSTAINABLE
FUTURE, OUR FOCUS MUST REMAIN
ON WHAT UNITES US AND HELPS
EVERY PRESIDENT THRIVE.
>> WE KNOW THERE ARE THOSE WHO
MAY NOT SHARE THOSE VALUES BUT
AS A COMMUNITY WE'VE ALWAYS
SHOWN THAT LOVE EQUITY AND
EXCLUSIVITY OUTWEIGH HATE AND
FEAR.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON
.
>> SINCE I WAS ABSENT LAST
MEETING I WANTED TO TAKE A
MINUTE TO SAY A WORD ABOUT
WENZHONG, MY FORMER COLLEAGUE
WHO SAID I AM NOW QUITE
LITERALLY SITTING IN FROM A
LIBRARY BOARD OF COUNCIL.
LYNN ALWAYS SOUGHT TO GET MORE
PEOPLE INVOLVED IN LOCAL
GOVERNMENT.
I THINK IT IS NO ACCIDENT BY
THE END OF HER TIME ON COUNCIL
SHE WAS A MEMBER OF THE MOST
DIVERSE COUNCIL IN THE ENTIRE
HISTORY AS SHE PUT IT BEST WHEN
YOU INVITE COMMUNITY INTO THE
WORK THAT'S WHEN THE MAGIC
HAPPENS.
WHEN I WOULD TALK TO LYNN ABOUT
HOUSING AND SOCIAL SERVICE
ISSUES, SHE WOULD OFTEN ASK TWO
QUESTIONS HOW CAN WE DO IT
BETTER AND CAN WE DO IT FASTER
?
I COSPONSORED MANY RESOLUTIONS
WITH LYNN BUT THE ONE I ARE
MOST PROUD OF WAS THE
RESOLUTION IN JUNE OF TWENTY
TWENTY THREE DIRECTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO EVALUATE
BONDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MILEAGE FUNDS WITH THE SUPPORT
OF CITY STAFF JENNIFER HALL AND
THE HOUSING COMMISSION.
THIS HAS RESULTED IN MILLIONS
CONTRIBUTED TO THE KATHERINE
STREET PROJECT AND THE
POTENTIAL TO FUND MANY PROJECTS
GOING FORWARD.
THIS IS JUST ONE EXAMPLE OF THE
LEGACY COUNCIL MEMBERS SONG
LEAVES BEHIND.
IT WAS A PLEASURE TO SERVE WITH
YOU LYNN AND I'M PROUD TO
CONTINUE IN THE WORK.
>> I'M ALSO EXCITED TO WELCOME
MY NEW COUNCIL MY NEW COLLEAGUE
COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK I'M
PARTICULARLY PARTIAL TO HIS
BACKGROUND IN ECONOMICS BUT I
KNOW HE'S DOING ALL THE RIGHT
THINGS AS HE'S BEGUN HIS
COUNCIL CAREER BY LISTENING TO
AS MANY COMMUNITY MEMBERS AS
POSSIBLE.
I'VE ALSO HEARD FROM OUR STAFF
AND HIS ORIENTATIONS THAT HE'S
APPROACHING THE ROLE WITH SOME
CURIOSITY AND SOME
THOUGHTFULNESS.
SO STAY TUNED FOR INFORMATION
ABOUT A JOINT KOFAR THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK AND I WILL
BE HOSTING IN JANUARY COUNCIL
IN BRITISH.
>> THANK YOU.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO SAY THAT I
HAD A REALLY ENJOYABLE HOUR AND
A HALF YESTERDAY ATTENDING THE
GRAND OPENING OF THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN CULTURAL AND
HISTORICAL MUSEUM WHICH HAS
MOVED INTO ITS NEW PERMANENT
LOCATION NO LONGER IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD BUT NOW OUT AT 32
61 LOWER ROAD.
IT'S A BEAUTIFUL 1825 WELL
FARMHOUSE BUILT IN 1820 I'VE
BOUGHT AND RENOVATED BY
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY
LEADERS LETICIA AND DAVID BYRD.
>> THIRTY YEARS OF COMMUNITY
VOLUNTEER HOURS KEPT THIS
PROJECT ALIVE.
THIRTY YEARS THAT MUSEUM HAS
EXISTED AS A MUSEUM WITHOUT
WALLS AND NOW IT FINALLY HAS
WALLS, A FOUNDATION, A ROOF AND
AN OUTDOOR DECK FOR EVENTS.
SO IT'S PRETTY SPECTACULAR AND
I JUST WANTED TO LET EVERYBODY
KNOW THAT IT'S OPEN, IT'S
THERE, YOU SHOULD VISIT IT AND
INCIDENTALLY IT'S A PROJECT
THAT WAS ALSO SUPPORTED BY THE
PHILANTHROPIC SATSANG
FOUNDATION SO WE CAN CONTINUE
THANKING WENZHONG AND HER
PARTNER DOUG SONG.
>> SO THANK YOU SO VERY DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I JUST WANTED TO DRAW MY
COLLEAGUES AND THE PUBLIC'S
ATTENTION TO AGENDA ITEM C ONE
THE ATTACHMENT FOR WHICH IS A
DRAFT OF AN UPCOMING PROPOSED
ORDINANCE TO BAN PRE TENANCY
FEES SPECIFICALLY ADDRESSES
WEIGHT LIST AND OTHER OFTEN
PREDATORY FEES THAT ARE CHARGED
BEFORE A LEASE IS SIGNED OR
FRANKLY OFTEN BEFORE ONE IS
EVEN OFFERED AND IT ALSO LIMITS
AND MAKES REFUNDABLE
APPLICATION FEES.
WE ARE STILL AWAITING THE FINAL
STAFF REPORT TO FOR THIS TO BE
FORMALLY INTRODUCED BUT I
WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT THIS
WAS PUBLIC AND AVAILABLE TO
EVERYBODY SINCE THIS IS A TOPIC
OF CONSIDERABLE INTEREST IN THE
COMMUNITY AND BECAUSE WE ALSO
KNOW THAT KIND OF THAT THAT
CAMPUS LEASING CYCLE IS
APPROACHING AGAIN.
I'LL ALSO NOTE THIS IS THE
FIRST OF TWO ORDINANCE
REVISIONS THAT ARE COMING.
THERE'S A COMPANION ORDINANCE
THAT WOULD ADDRESS RENT
TRANSPAC AND SEE THAT IS STILL
BEING FINALIZED WHICH WOULD
ADDRESS ALL OF THOSE OTHER
RENTAL JUNK FEES THAT EXIST
WITHIN ACTUAL LEASES.
AND I'LL SPEAK MORE TO BOTH
OF THESE WHEN THE PROPOSED
ORDINANCES ARE INTRODUCED AT
FIRST READING.
BUT IF FOLKS HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS, JUST WANT TO LET YOU
KNOW THAT YOU CAN REACH OUT TO
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON OR
MYSELF COUNCIL MEMBER IHR THANK
YOU SO COUNCIL MEMBERS SONG
FORMER COUNCIL MEMBER SONG
OFTEN ACTUALLY EVERY TIME WE
HEARD HOLOCAUST DENIERS SPEAK
HERE IN THIS ROOM COUNCIL
MEMBERS SONG DENOUNCED IT.
MANY OF US TURN OUR BACKS, SHE
NOT ONLY DENOUNCED IT BUT WOULD
GIVE A GENEROUS DONATION TO
JAPHETH.
I DON'T NECESSARILY HAVE THE
MEANS TO DO THAT EVERY TIME WE
HEAR HOLOCAUST DENIERS SPEAK
BUT I WILL DENOUNCE EVERY
SINGLE TIME AND CONDEMN THAT
SPEECH PERSONALLY.
>> IT'S OFFENSIVE.
IT'S DISGUSTING AND THE FACT
THAT OUR HOLICK OUR LOCAL
RESIDENT HOLOCAUST DENIER
APPLAUDED THE PRO TRUMP PRO
TRUMP SPEAKER AT PUBLIC COMMENT
JUST REALLY MADE CLEAR THE
ALLIANCE BETWEEN THESE TWO.
>> IT'S NOT JUST A NATIONAL
ISSUE.
IT'S RIGHT HERE IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND IT HAPPENS WITH
TERRIBLE FREQUENCY.
>> MOVING ON AS CHAIR OF THE
POLICY DENHA COMMITTEE, WE ARE
LOOKING TOWARDS A NEW
LEGISLATIVE SESSION STARTING IN
THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR AND I
INVITE MY COLLEAGUES OF COURSE
TO RAISE ANY ISSUES THAT THEY
WANT TO BE A FOCUS OF OUR
POLICY AGENDA, OUR LEGISLATIVE
POLICY AGENDA.
>> OF COURSE THIS IS THE AGENDA
THAT WE LOBBY FOR AT THE STATE
LEVEL AND ALSO AT THE FEDERAL
LEVEL.
WE WILL BE REACHING OUT TO ALL
OF OUR BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
AS WELL ASKING THEM FOR THEIR
FEEDBACK AND INPUT ON WHAT
BILLS THEY'D LIKE TO SEE PUSHED
IN THIS NEW LEGISLATIVE SESSION
AND WE LOOK FORWARD TO PUTTING
THAT TOGETHER.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK.
>> HELLO EVERYBODY.
I AM VERY EXCITED TO BE HERE.
AS MANY OF US KNOW RUNNING FOR
ELECTED OFFICE IS NO EASY TASK
SO I HAVE MUCH THANKS TO GIVE
FIRST I WAS PRETTY NERVOUS AT
THE IDEA OF RUNNING FOR COUNCIL
WHEN I INITIALLY CONSIDERED IT
EARLIER THIS YEAR BUT AT THAT
TIME I TALKED WITH MANY OF MY
NOW COLLEAGUES HERE AT THE
TABLE AS WELL AS QUITE A FEW
FORMER COUNCIL MEMBERS.
EVERYONE WAS NOTHING BUT
ENCOURAGING AND HELPFUL.
SO THANK YOU AND I'M VERY
EXCITED TO SERVE WITH YOU ALL
TO MY PREDECESSOR, FORMER
COUNCIL MEMBER LYNN SONG.
LET ME JUST SAY I HAVE BIG
SHOES TO FILL SO THANK YOU FOR
THAT.
BUT IN ALL SERIOUSNESS I WANT
TO THANK LYNN FOR HER PASSION
AND DEDICATION TO THE CITY.
>> SHE'S DEFINITELY SET A HIGH
BAR.
I WANT TO THANK MY FRIENDS AND
MY FAMILY INCLUDING MY PARENTS
FOR INSTILLING IN ME A PASSION
FOR PUBLIC SERVICE AND MY
HUSBAND FOR BEING SO INCREDIBLY
SUPPORTIVE THIS YEAR I WANT TO
THANK ADMINISTRATOR DAHANEH AND
AND OUR STAFF FOR THE WONDERFUL
ORIENTATION THIS PAST WEEK I
LEARNED AN INCREDIBLE,
INCREDIBLE AMOUNT IN A SHORT
FEW DAYS AND NEEDLESS TO SAY I
AM SO IMPRESSED AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO WORKING WITH THE
WONDERFUL PEOPLE EMPLOYED IN
OUR CITY.
>> LASTLY, THANK YOU TO THE
VOTERS OF WARD TWO FOR TAKING A
CHANCE ON ME.
I WAS ABLE TO MEET MANY OF YOU
OVER THE PAST SIX MONTHS AND
I'VE REALLY ENJOYED HEARING
YOUR HOPES AND IDEAS FOR THE
CITY AND PLEASE CONTINUE TO
REACH OUT TO ME MY NEW COUNSEL
EMAIL IS J.
>> MALLICK AT A TARGET I
PROMISE TO PROUDLY AND HUMBLY
SERVE YOU TO THE BEST OF MY
ABILITY OVER THE NEXT FOUR
YEARS WHILE I HAVE NEVER HELD
ELECTED POSITION BEFORE, I HAVE
SPENT MY ENTIRE PROFESSIONAL
CAREER IN SOME SORT OF PUBLIC
SERVICE AND I TAKE THE IDEA
OF PUBLIC SERVICE VERY
SERIOUSLY STEMMING FROM MY CORE
BELIEF THAT GOVERNMENT CAN AND
SHOULD HAVE A POSITIVE ROLE IN
OUR LIVES AND OUR IS DOING A
LOT OF THINGS RIGHT.
I THINK A LOT OF US FOCUSED ON
ITS PROBLEMS SOMETIMES FORGET
THAT THAT BEING SAID AND AS WE
HAVE SEEN THIS PAST MONTH
ACROSS OUR COUNTRY, PROGRESS IS
NEITHER LINEAR NOR GUARANTEED.
I'M READY TO ROLL UP MY SLEEVES
AND BE A PART OF THE SOLUTION
THAT CONTINUES TO MOVE AND
ARBER FORWARD.
I KNOW I HAVE A LOT TO LEARN
BUT I'M EXCITED TO JUMP IN.
THANK FURTHER COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL COUNSEL MCCRINDLE
.
>> THANK YOU COUNCILMAN
BRIERRE.
I DON'T HAVE THE MEANS TO GIVE
AS GENEROUSLY AS OUR FORMER
COLLEAGUE BUT I'LL JOIN YOU IN
DENOUNCING ANTI-SEMITISM AND
WILL BE MAKING A DONATION AS
MEANINGFUL TO ME AND MY FAMILY
TONIGHT THIS IS A BIT OF A
SPOILER ALERT BUT I'M GOING TO
ASK EVERYONE TO SAVE THE DATE
SHOCKINGLY FOR MAIN STREET AREA
ASSOCIATION EVENT DECEMBER 6TH
IS MIDNIGHT MADNESS.
IT STARTS AT FIVE PM
.
MOST OF THE RETAILERS DOWNTOWN
WILL BE OPEN EITHER TILL 11:00
OR MIDNIGHT.
THE BUSINESSES DOWNTOWN ARE
REALLY EXCITED AND WORKING ON
THIS.
THIS INCLUDES THE CARRIE TOWN
AREA AS WELL AS STATE STREET
AND MAIN STREET.
>> THIS IS THE FIRST TIME
PUTTING ON A FULL COURT PRESS
DOWNTOWN AND IF IT PASSES AS
PART OF THE CONSENT AGENDA
THERE WILL BE STREET CLOSURES
AND A LOT OF ACTIVATIONS THAT
THE GROUPS ARE WORKING HARD TO
BRING TO OUR COMMUNITY IRISH
DANCING THERE IS GOING TO BE AN
ART AND FAMILY FRIENDLY AREA
SPONSORED BY DESTINATION ANN
ARBOR.
>> SANTA WILL BE HERE SO BRING
YOUR FAMILIES DOWN LUMINARIES,
CAROLS, HOLIDAY LIGHTS AND FOR
OLDER FOLKS WHO JUST ENJOY
CELEBRATING THE HOLIDAYS A
COCKTAIL CRAWL WHICH IS BEING
ORGANIZED BETWEEN THE VARIOUS
SOCIAL DISTRICTS DOWNTOWN.
SO DECEMBER 6TH, FIVE O'CLOCK
TO ELEVEN OR TWELVE DEPENDING
ON I SUPPOSE YOUR BEDTIME AND
WHAT BUSINESSES YOU WANT TO
HIT.
BUT THE BUSINESSES ARE REALLY
COMING TOGETHER TO MAKE THIS A
REALLY NICE CELEBRATION OF OUR
DOWNTOWN AREA AND A CHANCE TO
GET A JUMP ON THE HOLIDAY
SEASON IN A REALLY JOYFUL WAY.
SO I HOPE THAT FOLKS WILL COME
DOWN AND SUPPORT OUR
BUSINESSES.
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN
REICHMANN.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I I WANTED TO SHARE BUT THIS
WEEKEND I HAD THE PLEASURE
OF SPENDING TIME WITH TWO
REALLY IMPORTANT LOCAL GROUPS
ONE IS THE STEWARDSHIP NETWORK
WHICH IS CELEBRATING THEIR 20TH
ANNIVERSARY AND THEY HAD THAT
EVENT AT THE LESLIE SCIENCE AND
NATURE CENTER.
THEY WERE FOUNDED AND THEY'RE
BASED IN ANN ARBOR AND THEY
FACILITATE RELATIONSHIPS ACROSS
ORGANIZATIONS DOING
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WORK
IN OUR REGION AND BEYOND,
INCLUDING WITH OUR CITY.
I ALSO WENT TO THE NEUTRAL
ZONES ENGAGE SERIES.
THIS IS AN ANNUAL FUNDRAISER AS
MANY FOLKS NO NEUTRAL ZONE AS A
NONPROFIT THAT SERVES YOUNG
PEOPLE IN OUR COMMUNITY AND HAD
THE GOOD PLEASURE OF VISITING
DIFFERENT TABLES WHERE YOUNG
PEOPLE HAD IDEAS THAT THEY WERE
RAISING MONEY FOR EVERYTHING
FROM CREATING EZINE TO BUILDING
FACILITIES TO HAVE A PODCAST TO
A FOOD PANTRY YOU KNOW, ALL TO
HELP REALIZE THEIR VISIONS.
AND THE REASON WHY I BRING UP
THESE TWO IMPORTANT NONPROFITS
THAT ARE DOING WORK AND THIS IS
JUST A FRACTION OF WHAT'S GOING
ON IN OUR COMMUNITY IS TO
HIGHLIGHT THE IMPORTANCE
OF TAKING ACTION AND DOING
SOMETHING THAT'S MEANINGFUL FOR
YOU.
IT'S INTERESTING TO BE SITTING
HERE IN THE WAKE OF THE
ELECTION RESULTS BECAUSE 2016
IS LITERALLY WHAT GOT ME AND I
KNOW MANY PEOPLE I KNOW
INVOLVED.
SO IN TWENTY WAKE OF TWENTY
SIXTEEN I WAS STRUGGLING WITH
THE RESULTS AND LOOKING FOR A
WAY TO DO SOMETHING AND I DID
SOMETHING BY FIRST GETTING
INVOLVED WITH THE LEAGUE
OF WOMEN VOTERS AND AND RUNNING
FOR THE LIBRARY BOARD AND THEN
FROM LIBRARY BOARD TO CITY
COUNCIL.
>> AND I SAY THAT BECAUSE WHEN
I'M FEELING UPSET OR HELPLESS I
FIND THAT THE BEST ANTIDOTE IS
TO TAKE ACTION AND THERE ARE A
LOT OF OPPORTUNITIES TO TAKE
ACTION IN OUR COMMUNITY AND A
LOT OF PEOPLE DOING GOOD
THINGS.
>> SO FIND YOUR PEOPLE AND DO
SOMETHING FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL I'D LIKE TO
RECOMMEND THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE EMPLOYEES
RETIREMENT SYSTEM BOARD
OF TRUSTEES ALEXANDER NATRIUM
TO THE RECREATION ADVISORY
BOARD NICHOLAS KRO.
>> I'D ALSO LIKE TO RECOMMEND
THE FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION TO THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION.
>> REBECCA NOEL AND HANNA LANE
.
>> WE HAVE BEFORE US THE
CONSENT AGENDA OF THE MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CONSENT
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
BRIGGS BY COUNCILMAN CORNELL
DISCUSSION THE CONSENT AGENDA
BREAKS.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO COMMENT ON
FOR AS MANY FOLKS HAVE SPOKEN
BOTH IN OUR PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD AND ALSO SEND US EMAILS
VERY SUPPORTIVE OF THIS
PROJECT, VERY, VERY GRATEFUL TO
STAFF FOR LOOKING FOR A
COMPREHENSIVE SOLUTION TO
MILLER AVENUE.
>> IT WAS NOT AN EASY TASK TO
TO COME UP WITH THE MISMATCH
OF FUNDING TO TO DO THIS TYPE
OF PROJECT.
IT'S A WATER MAIN REPLACEMENT
STORMWATER IMPROVEMENTS
RESURFACING AND THEN AS MANY
SPOKE OF SIGNIFICANT BY AND
PEDESTRIAN IMPROVEMENTS.
THIS IS A MILLER AVENUE IS A
CORRIDOR THAT WE HEAR A LOT
ABOUT IN THE FIFTH WARD.
IT'S OBVIOUSLY A TIER ONE
CORRIDOR IN OUR TRANSPORTATION
PLAN MEANING THAT IT HAS HIGH
CRASH EXPERIENCE, HIGH CRASHES
AND IS A HIGH PRIORITY FOR FOR
FOR FIXES.
BUT IT'S ALSO JUST BEEN A
CORRIDOR THAT HAS AS FOLKS WHO
LIVE ON ALONG AND HAVE SPOKEN
TO JUST IS PRETTY DANGEROUS AND
FEELS IT'S IMPACTING FOLKS
QUALITY OF LIFE.
AND SO I'VE BEEN HEARING ABOUT
THE SPEEDING ISSUES ON THAT FOR
SOME TIME AND OBVIOUSLY IT'S
TAKES A COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH
LIKE THIS TO ACTUALLY BRING
DOWN THOSE SPEEDS.
SO I'M EXCITED THAT THE NEW
DESIGN SPEED FOR THE CORRIDORS
CAN BE TWENTY FIVE MILES PER
HOUR WHICH MEANS THE POSTED
SPEED LIMITS CAN GO DOWN FROM
35 MILES TO TWENTY FIVE MILES
PER HOUR AND HOPEFULLY WE'LL
SEE THOSE SPEEDS ACTUALLY
REDUCE SO THAT WE'RE NOT
FINDING FOLKS GOING 50 MILES AN
HOUR ALONG THAT ROADWAY WHICH I
KNOW NIGHT TIME SOMETIMES
OF SPEEDS OR EVEN OR EVEN
GREATER OR SO EXCITING
IMPROVEMENTS ALONG HERE.
THEY'RE GOING TO BENEFIT A
WHOLE HOST OF DIFFERENT FOLKS
BUT PARTICULARLY FOLKS LIKE
THIS, THE STUDENTS WHO GO TO
SCHOOL ON HERE AND EXCITED AND
VERY GRATEFUL TO OUR STAFF FOR
FOR REALLY DIGGING INTO THIS
AND TRYING TO AND BRING IT TO
FRUITION
AND TO JOIN MY WARD
FIVE COLLEAGUE TO GIVE COLLAPSE
ALL AROUND FOR THIS PROJECT THE
FIRST TIME THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGGS AND I MET WITH STAFF TO
TALK ABOUT THIS PROJECT, WHAT
WAS INITIALLY PROPOSED MADE IT
SEEM LIKE WHERE WE ARE TODAY
MIGHT NOT BE AS POSSIBLE AS IT
IS AND AS EXCITING AS IT IS.
>> SO I WANT TO REITERATE HER
GRATITUDE TO CITY STAFF.
EVERYTHING FROM HOW DO WE
RETRIEVE TRASH AND RECYCLE
BINS, COMPOST BINS FROM THIS
ROUTE IF THE TWO WAY WAS
IMPLEMENTED TO SNOW REMOVAL TO
EVERYTHING IN BETWEEN WAS
REALLY THOUGHTFULLY CONSIDERED
AND ADDRESSED BY STAFF IN A WAY
THAT WHAT FELT AT THE INITIAL
READING OF THIS JUST
CONVERSATION WITH US AND CITY
STAFF TO WHERE IT IS TODAY I
DIDN'T IMAGINE THAT THIS WAS
POSSIBLE.
>> SO TO REITERATE A COUPLE
OF THINGS THAT MY COLLEAGUE
COMMENTED ON THAT THIS IS AN
ALL AGES ALL ABILITY.
WE HAD A NEIGHBOR FROM NO CROW
BRING UP THAT THIS IS A REALLY
IMPORTANT CONNECTOR POINT
BETWEEN THE SPLIT BETWEEN
DEXTER AND AND DEXTER AND
JACKSON AND BRINGING PEOPLE TO
DOWNTOWN IN A REALLY SAFE
ROUTE.
IF YOU'VE EVER TRIED TO BIKE
JACKSON ROAD, GOD BE WITH YOU.
>> YOU HAVE A MUCH GREATER
TOLERANCE FOR RISK THAN I EVER
WILL HAVE.
THIS THIS PROJECT REALLY DOES
HAVE EVERYTHING FROM RUDYS
SPEEDS WATER MAIN RESURFACING
THE BIKE LANES AND AS A MEMBER
OF WITH COUNCILMAN BECAUSE HE
HAD WHEN THE CITY SCHOOLS
COMMITTEE THIS IS A REALLY
IMPORTANT SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL
.
>> IT MAKES A CONNECTION THAT
MAKES PARENTS WHOSE KIDS HAVE
TO CROSS THAT ROAD FEEL SAFE
ALONG SEVERAL DIFFERENT POINTS
BY VIRTUE OF JUST REDUCING THE
SPEEDS AND PUTTING IN DIFFERENT
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT MAKES IT
HARDER TO SPEED AND MORE MORE
THOUGHTFUL ROUTE IN TERMS
OF INCLUSIVENESS REGARDING THE
WAY THAT YOU WANT TO USE OUR
ROADS AND SO WALKERS, BIKERS
AND FOLKS WHO ARE DRIVING WILL
ALL BE MADE SAFER BY THIS.
AND THE OTHER EXCITING THING
THAT HASN'T BEEN MENTIONED IS
THAT THIS IS AN IMPORTANT
CONNECTION POINT THAT WILL
ACTUALLY CONNECT THE TRELANE
TRAIL TO WEST PARK.
AND SO FOR FOLKS WHO WANT TO
GET DOWNTOWN OVER TO THE WEST
SIDE OF TOWN, THIS CREATES
ANOTHER WAY FOR THAT TO BE
SAFER AND THAT CAN'T BE
UNDERSTATED.
>> I KNOW IT'S COME UP A FEW
TIMES BUT SLOWING DOWN SPEEDS
AND MAKING IT SO THAT PEOPLE
WHO ARE GETTING AROUND BY
ANOTHER OTHER THAN CARS FEEL
SAFE TO DO SO IS A REALLY
IMPORTANT STEP FORWARD FOR THIS
CORRIDOR.
SO I'M REALLY EXCITED AND LOOK
FORWARD TO MY COLLEAGUES
SUPPORTING IT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> I ALSO WANTED TO ADDRESS
THIS SAME TOPIC.
>> THE PROJECT ITSELF IS GREAT.
I'M REALLY EXCITED ABOUT IT BUT
I DID WANT TO LAMENT THE FACT
THAT WHEN HIRING THE CONTRACTOR
FOR THIS PROJECT WE WERE NOT
ABLE TO USE OUR BEST VALUE
PROCUREMENT POLICY FOR THE CITY
AND I WANTED TO INVITE OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR JUST TO GIVE A
BRIEF EXPLANATION AS TO WHY WE
HAD TO GO WITH THE LOWEST
RESPONSIBLE BIDDER WHICH IS NOT
THE BEST PRACTICE FOR OUR CITY
ANYMORE.
THE POOR HAD AN ELEMENT OF OUR
FUNDING IN WHICH IS FEDERAL AND
BECAUSE OF THAT IT REQUIRES
THAT YOU GO WITH THE LOW BIDDER
AND THAT'S WHY I DID NOT GO
THROUGH THE PROCESS THAT
COUNCIL HAD SET.
>> YEAH, THANK YOU.
IT CONTINUES TO BE FRUSTRATING
THAT WE HAVE I THINK WHAT WE'VE
DECIDED IS A BETTER SYSTEM TO
EVALUATE AND HIRE CONTRACTORS
FOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS IN
THE CITY AND YET WHEN WE
PARTNER WITH THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT OR WITH THE STATE
GOVERNMENT ON FUNDING FOR
PROJECTS, WE ARE BACK TO THE
LOWEST BIDDER POLICIES CHEAPEST
BID INSTEAD OF EVALUATING BIDS
IN TERMS OF WHAT WE VALUE AND
WHAT WE THINK IS GOING TO
PROVIDE THE BEST QUALITY AND
SAFETY IN TERMS OF A PROJECT
FOR OUR CITY.
>> SO THAT SAID, I THINK THIS
PROJECT IS GOING TO BE
FANTASTIC FOR THE CITY.
I'M REALLY EXCITED ABOUT ALL
THE BENEFITS IT'S GOING TO
BRING SO I WILL BE SUPPORTING
IT.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WOULD LIKE TO EXPRESS JOY
ABOUT S.A. NINE AND TEN CNN
IS
GRANT FUNDING THAT WAS
COMPETITIVELY EARNED BY THE
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION TOTALING JUST OVER
THREE MILLION DOLLARS FROM THE
MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION.
AND THIS GRANT WILL SUPPORT
NEIGHBORHOOD DECARBONIZATION
EFFORTS IN THE BRYANT
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THESE EFFORTS WILL FOCUS ON
ENERGY EFFICIENCY,
ELECTRIFICATION, HEALTH AND
SAFETY IN UP TO 50 INCOME
QUALIFIED HOMES.
SO THIS IS A CRUCIAL PIECE
OF OUR JUST TRANSITION TO
CARBON NEUTRALITY AND JUST WOW
.
THANK YOU AGAIN.
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION.
IT SEEMS AT LEAST ONCE A MONTH
WE ARE ACCEPTING GRANTS FROM
THAT REALLY HARD WORKING
ENTREPRENEURIAL OFFICE.
SEE TEN IS THREE AND A HALF
MILLION DOLLARS FROM THE
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
TO TO EXTEND OUR ELECTRIC
VEHICLE CHARGING IN ANN ARBOR
WITH A PARTICULAR FOCUS.
IT'S GOING TO BE A THIRTY SIX
LEVEL TO CHARGE PORTS AND
TWELVE DIRECT CURRENT FAST
CHARGE PORTS ACROSS THE CITY.
BUT WE ARE LOOKING SIGNIFICANT
LOOKING SPECIFICALLY TO FILL
GAPS IN LOW INCOME AREAS AND AT
PARK AND RIDE LOTS AND NEAR
MULTIUNIT DWELLINGS AND NEAR
LARGE RETAIL SPACES.
ALL OF WHICH IS REALLY
IMPORTANT BECAUSE NOT EVERYBODY
HAS A GARAGE THAT THEY CAN PARK
THEIR CAR AND CHARGE IT
OVERNIGHT IN.
AND SO IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
THAT WE PUT THESE IN PLACES
WHERE PEOPLE CAN RUN IN AND DO
THEIR SHOPPING AND CHARGE THEIR
AUTOMOBILE THEIR ELECTRIC
AUTOMOBILE OF COURSE.
AND IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT FOLKS WHO LIVE
IN, YOU KNOW, MULTI-FAMILY OF ,
YOU KNOW, HIGH RISES WHICH I
HOPE WE HAVE A LOT OF A LOT
MORE OF THEY NEED A PLACE TO
CHARGE THEIR LIVES AS WELL.
SO REALLY HAPPY TO SEE THESE
AND THANK YOU VERY MUCH
.
THANK YOU FOR THOSE AT HOME.
>> TRUST ME I WAS SAYING VERY
SAGE THINGS BROADLY SPEAKING
MILLER ROAD GOOD.
>> I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO JUST
TOUCH BRIEFLY UPON THE ITEMS
THAT COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
IDENTIFIED THE GRANT FROM THE
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
WITH RESPECT TO EV CHARGES IS
OBVIOUSLY CRUCIAL AND THANK YOU
SO MUCH TO THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATION
FOR GETTING THAT IN THE DOOR.
AND THEN I WANT TO HIT UPON OUR
OUR RETENTION OF SOMEONE TO
HELP US GET THE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY UP AND OFF THE
GROUND.
THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
IS SOMETHING OF COURSE THAT THE
VOTERS HAVE RATIFIED
OVERWHELMINGLY 79 PERCENT AND
IT'S GOING TO BE AN OUTSTANDING
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO WORK WITH THE CITY TO
ENJOY THE BENEFITS
OF RENEWABLE, RELIABLE, LOCALLY
GENERATED ELECTRICITY AND OTHER
FORMS OF ENERGY AT BELOW MARKET
PRICES.
AND I THINK THAT THE THE
INITIAL EFFORT TO GET THIS OFF
THE GROUND WITH WITH THROUGH
THIS THROUGH THIS CONSULTING
CONTRACT TO WORK ON BYELAWS
WORK ON GOVERNANCE, WORK ON
STRUCTURING IS EXACTLY WHAT'S
NEEDED THIS TIME.
ALTHOUGH THE THE CHANGE
OF ADMINISTRATION HAS WITH IT
TOO MANY PERILS TO TO ENUMERATE
IT ALSO IN THE SHORT TERM DOES
HAVE OPPORTUNITY.
>> THERE ARE EFFORTS OF COURSE
BOTH AT THE STATE AND FEDERAL
LEVEL TO TO OBLIGATE FUNDS IN
AREAS THAT ARE PERHAPS NOT THE
THE EMPHASIS OF THE INCOMING
ADMINISTRATION.
AND SO I'M HOPEFUL WITHOUT
BEING CERTAIN OF COURSE THAT WE
ARE ABLE TO AVAIL OURSELVES
OF SOME OF THOSE OPPORTUNITIES
TO GET THIS SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY UP AND RUNNING SWIFTLY
FURTHER DISCUSSION THE CONSENT
AGENDA IN FAVOR I'LL OPPOSE THE
CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED WITH
11 COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THAT
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO SEE
A FOUR SIX EIGHT NINE NCAA TEN
WE NOW COME TO WE NO PUBLIC
HEARING SO WE WILL JUST MOVE
STRAIGHT ON TO THE MINUTES WE
HAVE BEFORE US THE WORK SESSION
MINUTES OF OCTOBER 15 IN THE
REGULAR SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF NOVEMBER SEVEN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECONDED BY COUNSEL IN
BRITISH DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED THE
MINUTES ARE APPROVED C ONE IN
ORDER TO AMEND SECTION FIVE ONE
FIVE AND FIVE THAT ONE SIXTH
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DELMON CODE TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE THE STEPHEN ARBER
PERMITTED USE TABLES FOR CHILD
CARE CENTER AND PRIVATE SCHOOL
USES AND USE SPECIFIC STANDARDS
FOR CHILD CHILD CARE CENTER
USES MOVE BY COUNTERPROTEST
SECOND BY COUNCIL MARKAZI EDWYN
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE
COUNT OF BRITISH.
SO LAST WEEK WE HEARD SOBERING
NEWS ABOUT THE FACT THAT
MICHIGAN IS LOSING POPULATION
PEOPLE IN THEIR TWENTIES AND
THIRTIES AND THAT THAT'S
ESPECIALLY NOTEWORTHY THAT IT'S
HAPPENING IN WASHINGTON COUNTY
.
ONE REASON WHY THAT'S HAPPENING
IS THAT WE IN AND AROUND ANN
ARBOR ARE A CHILD CARE DESERT.
THERE'S ONLY ONE LICENSED CHILD
CARE SLOT FOR EVERY EIGHT
CHILDREN UNDER FIVE THREE OUT
OF FIVE FAMILIES CANNOT FIND
CHILD CARE THAT MEETS THEIR
NEEDS AND IT'S WORSE FOR
FAMILIES EARNING LESS THAN ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS A YEAR
ACCORDING TO THE LIVINGSTON
WASHTENAW CHILD CARE PLANNING
COALITION WHICH PUT OUT A A
REPORT CALLED THE MICHIGAN
UNTAPPED POTENTIAL REPORT CHILD
CARE ISSUES RESULT IN A 2.8
BILLION WITH A B ANNUAL LOSS
FOR THE MICHIGAN ECONOMY.
THAT'S A BIG WASTE.
THIS IS A SMALL BUT MEANINGFUL
CHANGE THAT WE WILL BE VOTING
ON IN ABOUT A MONTH.
THIS IS THE FIRST READING SO
BUT WHAT WE ARE DOING IS WE
WILL PERMIT CHILD CARE CENTER
AS A PRIMARY USE NOT A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE BUT IT WILL BE A
USE AS LONG AS YOU COMPLY WITH
ALL OTHER REGULATIONS AND YOU
WILL YOU WILL HAVE A RIGHT TO
LOCATE A CHILD CARE CENTER IN
ALL OF OUR IN ALL OUR ONE
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING TWISTEX
IN OUR TO A ARE TO BE TO
RESTORE CHILD CARE CENTER USE
AS AS PRIMARY USES IN THE
RESEARCH DISTRICT WHICH WAS
ALLOWED PRIOR TO 2019 AND
DISCONTINUED AND TO ALLOW THEM
IN THE OFFICE RESEARCH LIMITED
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONING
DISTRICTS.
THIS CHANGE WILL ALSO ALLOW
PRIVATE SCHOOL USES BUT ALLOW
THOSE AS SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES
IN THE RESEARCH AND OFFICE
RESEARCH LIMITED LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
IT IS A SIGNIFICANT CHANGE
BECAUSE ESPECIALLY WITH RESPECT
TO THE CHILD CARE CENTERS
BECAUSE THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
PROCESS IS BURDENSOME.
IT SLOWS DOWN GETTING PERMITS
AND GETTING YOUR FACILITY
OPENED AND IT CAN ALSO BE
EXPENSIVE BECAUSE MANY PEOPLE
CHILD CARE CENTERS DO NOT HAVE
DEVELOPMENT STAFF OR PEOPLE ON
STAFF WHO ROUTINELY INTERFACE
WITH THE CITY AND SO IT OFTEN
MEANS THAT THEY NEED TO HIRE
PEOPLE TO HELP THEM NAVIGATE
THE APPROVAL PROCESS.
NOW THERE WON'T BE ONE UNLESS
THEY'RE, YOU KNOW, DOING
SOMETHING THAT CHANGES THE SITE
IN SUCH A WAY AS REQUIRES A
SITE PLAN.
>> SO WE ARE REALLY HAPPY TO
SEE THIS.
WE KNOW THAT WITH THIS CHANGE
OR RATHER I SHOULD SAY PLANNING
COMMISSION THAT WAS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION, NOT THE
COUNCIL.
WE WITH THIS CHANGE NEIGHBORS
WOULD NOT BE NOTICED IF THERE
WERE A CHILD CARE CENTER
OPENING IN THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THERE WOULDN'T BE A PUBLIC
HEARING UNLESS COUNCIL PLACE
I'M SORRY THAT'S I THINK QUITE
GOOD ENOUGH FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF C1 POR FAVOR OPPOSED IT'S
APPROVED SEE TO AN AUDIENCE TO
AMEND SECTION TO THREE
OF CHAPTER TWENTY SIX SOLID
WASTE OF TITLE TWO UTILITIES
AND SERVICES AT THE CODE OF THE
CITY THEN ARBER MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN MY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRINGS DISCUSSION OF C
TO COUNCIL BRACKMAN OK YOU
MIGHT BE WONDERING WHY WE'RE
DOING THIS BECAUSE YOU PROBABLY
THOUGHT IT WAS ALREADY ILLEGAL
TO HAVE CARTS AND BIKE LANES
BUT WHAT I LEARNED IS ACTUALLY
THERE WAS A DISCONNECT BETWEEN
OUR I GUESS WHAT IS IT CALLED
SORRY CURBSIDE WASTE
REGULATIONS AND OUR ORDINANCE.
AND WHAT THAT BASICALLY MEANT
IS THAT EVEN WHEN PEOPLE WERE
REPORTING THESE ON C CLICK FIX
SOMETIMES THEY WERE GETTING A
RESPONSE THAT THE PERSON WAS IN
COMPLIANCE FOR HAVING A TRASH
BIN ON THEIR BIKE LANES.
SO WHAT WE FOUND WHAT I FOUND
WORKING WITH STAFF WAS THAT
THERE WAS THIS DISCONNECT.
IT MEANT THAT CITATIONS WERE
NOT BEING WRITTEN THAT PEOPLE
DIDN'T THINK THAT THEY COULD
THAT IT COULD BE ENFORCED.
AND SO THIS ORDINANCE REVISION
IS MEANT TO DEAL WITH THAT.
>> SO BASICALLY IT SAYS
UNEQUIVOCABLY UNEQUIVOCALLY
THAT A CURBSIDE TRASH
COLLECTION, THE BINS SHOULD NOT
BE IN BIKE LANES AND THEN
DETAILS OF WHICH WILL BE
UPDATED IN THE REGS AND SOMEONE
YOU KNOW, I THINK SOMETHING
THAT'S BEEN UNDERLYING
COMMENT
ABOUT THIS IS ORDINANCE CHANGES
AND PROACTIVE ACTION AND
ENFORCEMENT.
AND SO I GUESS I WANT TO MAKE
IT CLEAR THAT WHILE I THINK
THIS IS NECESSARY WORK CLEARING
THIS UP SO THAT EVERYONE'S ON
THE SAME PAGE WITH RESPECT TO
WHAT'S ALLOWED AND WHAT'S NOT
ALLOWED, I STILL THINK THAT
THERE'S WORK TO BE DONE TO
EDUCATE.
YOU KNOW, A LOT OF THE PLACES
WHERE THIS IS HAPPENING HAVE
HIGH TURNOVER STUDENT AREAS SO
PEOPLE MAY LITERALLY NOT KNOW
WHAT OUR REGULATIONS ARE.
AND SO I THINK PROACTIVE USE
OF THE STICKERS AND THAT ALSO
UNDERSTANDING HOW WE CAN BE
MORE PROACTIVE THAN REACTIVE
JUST TO A COMPLAINT DRIVEN
PROCESS BECAUSE I THINK IT'S
PRETTY CLEAR THAT IT'S NOT
MEETING OUR NEEDS IF WE HAVE
SOMEONE A PUBLIC COMMENT
TELLING US THAT IT'S BLOCKED 40
PERCENT OF THE TIME ON A
STRETCH OF I THINK YOU SAID
FOUR BLOCKS THAT'S A PROBLEM.
WE'RE INVESTING MONEY IN THESE
AND WE WANT PEOPLE TO FEEL
SAFE.
>> SO I THINK THAT'S ALL I HAVE
TO SAY ABOUT THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS.
>> I THINK I THINK MEMBER
ACKMANN EXPLAINED WELL WHAT WAS
GOING YOU KNOW WHAT THESE
CHANGES YOU KNOW WHY THEY'RE
PRECIPITATED AND WHAT THEY'RE
GOING TO DO.
>> I WANTED TO THANK HER FOR
DOING THE HEAVY LIFTING ON THIS
AND ALSO ATTORNEY RICER WHO PUT
A LOT OF TIME AND EFFORT TO
MAKE SURE THAT HE WAS TALKING
ACROSS DEPARTMENTS TO REALLY
UNDERSTAND THIS ISSUE AND MAKE
SURE THAT THIS WAS LOGICAL.
>> I THINK AS COUNCILMAN
ACKERMAN SAID, THERE'S A NEED
FOR ADDITIONAL EDUCATION AROUND
THIS ISSUE.
>> BUT I DO THINK THAT THE
CHANGES THAT WERE ARTICULATING
HERE ARE ARE THEY'RE FAIRLY
LOGICAL IN TERMS OF WHERE YOU
WOULD THINK YOUR TRASH AND
RECYCLING COMPOST CANS SHOULD
GO.
SO IT'S NOT HEAVY.
WE'RE NOT SUGGESTING ANYTHING
THAT IS PARTICULARLY SHOULD BE
A HEAVY LIFT IN TERMS
OF COMMUNICATING THIS TO THE
PUBLIC.
SO JUST KIND OF THE ONGOING
REINFORCEMENT AND EDUCATION TO
POPULATIONS THAT ARE TURNING
OVER WOULD BE GOOD.
SO THANKS SO MUCH TO ALL
ACCOUNTS AND BROYER.
>> THANK YOU.
JUST A QUICK WORD OF SUPPORT
WORD OF SUPPORT FOR THIS AND A
THANK YOU FOR MY FOURTH WORD
COLLEAGUE WHO JUST IS SO IN
TUNE WITH ISSUES RELATED TO
BIKING AND FIELDS THESE
QUESTIONS WE'VE GOTTEN A LOT
OF THESE QUESTIONS FROM FOURTH
WARD CONSTITUENTS.
I THINK EVERYBODY MOST OF US
PROBABLY HAVE GOTTEN SIMILAR
QUESTIONS FROM RESIDENTS OVER
THE COURSE OF OUR TIME HERE.
BUT COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN REALLY
HAS BEEN LEADING THE CHARGE
HERE AND I APPRECIATE THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE
SPONSORS FOR THIS COUNCIL
MEMBER.
IRA IS ABSOLUTELY CORRECT THAT
THIS IS NOT JUST A PROBLEM IN A
SINGLE WARD BUT ACROSS THE CITY
.
I THINK WE SEE THIS PROBABLY IN
EVERY SINGLE ONE OF OUR WORDS
WITH BIKE LANES.
AND I THINK ALSO I WANT TO WE
TALK A LOT ABOUT THE SAFETY
OF THE CYCLISTS IN THESE
CIRCUMSTANCES.
I ALSO WANT TO TALK ABOUT I
MEAN IF YOU'RE A DRIVER AND
YOU'RE ALSO FRUSTRATED AS
YOU'RE DRIVING AND A CYCLIST
HAS TO WHIP OUT IN FRONT OF YOU
BECAUSE OTHERWISE THEY'RE GOING
TO HIT AN OBSTACLE AND SO THIS
CREATES SAFER CONDITIONS FOR
EVERYONE WHO'S USING THE
ROADWAY.
AND SO I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT FOR US TO MAKE SURE
THAT THERE THERE'S A SAFE
PASSAGE WAY ALONG OUR BIKE
CORRIDORS THROUGHOUT THE CITY
AND I'M GRATEFUL FOR THIS.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO UPLIFT WHAT
COUNCIL MEMBER IS SAYING ABOUT
EDUCATION AND I THINK, YOU
KNOW, I WOULD ENCOURAGE FOLKS
TO READ THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS
TO THE TO THE REGULATIONS.
IT'S PRETTY CLEAR ON WHERE CUTS
SHOULD BE PLACED.
AND SO I WOULD ALSO JUST
EMPHASIZE I WILL DO MY PART TO
MAKE SURE THAT I'M
COMMUNICATING OUT TO MY
CONSTITUENTS.
I HOPE THAT WE ALL WILL.
BUT I ALSO HOPE THAT THE CITY
CONTINUES TO EDUCATE AS WELL SO
THAT FOLKS ARE ARE FULLY AWARE
OF WHERE THEY SHOULD BE PLACING
THEIR THEIR CURBSIDE CARTS
BECAUSE I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE
JUST DON'T KNOW WHERE TO PUT
THEM IN THOSE CIRCUMSTANCES.
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED AS
A CO-SPONSOR TO THIS AND I DO
WANT TO THANK MY COLLEAGUES FOR
DOING IT AND I I HOPE THAT WE
COULD EXPLORE THE POSSIBILITY
OF A TAGGING SYSTEM THAT MIGHT
HAVE A GRAPHIC.
HERE'S HOW YOU DO THIS.
HERE ARE THE FOUR DIFFERENT
SKETCHES OF HOW YOU DO IT
DEPENDING ON YOUR CIRCUMSTANCE
.
THAT'S WHAT WE DO NOW WHEN
THERE'S AN OVERWEIGHT CART OR
OTHER THINGS AND AND I JUST
THINK THAT MIGHT BE THE MOST
AND THERE'S NO FINE OR
ANYTHING.
IT'S JUST IT'S JUST A TAGGING
THING.
IT JUST REMINDS YOU AND I THINK
THAT WOULD BE A REALLY GREAT
THING TO DO TO BECAUSE I THINK
THAT THERE IS CONFUSION
SOMETIMES, ESPECIALLY IF YOU'RE
YOUR LAWN EXTENSION THING IS IS
SLANTED AND YOU'RE WORRIED THAT
THE THING IS GOING TO ROLL INTO
THE ROAD.
I MEAN THERE'S LOTS OF REASONS
I DON'T THINK THAT IT'S ALL YOU
KNOW, JUST CARELESSNESS OR
THOUGHTLESSNESS AND SO IT'D BE
GREAT TO DO AN EDUCATION EFFORT
ON THIS FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL RACKMAN I JUST FAIL TO
THANK ATTORNEY RIISER.
SO I WANTED TO DO THAT BECAUSE
IT TOOK A LOT OF COORDINATION.
YOU WOULD THINK MAYBE THINK
FROM THE OUTSIDE THAT THIS IS
PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD BUT IT
ACTUALLY INVOLVES SEVERAL
DIFFERENT DEPARTMENTS AND
FIGURING OUT WHAT'S WORKABLE
AND THINKING ABOUT ALL THE
SCENARIOS IN WHICH THE RULE
THAT YOU CREATE MIGHT BE BROKEN
OR MIGHT NOT MAKE SENSE.
AND I KNOW THAT HE WAS DRIVING
AROUND TOWN TO LOOK AT ALL
OF THOSE EDGE CASES.
SO I JUST APPRECIATE THAT I
TOLD HIM WHAT WE WANTED AND
WHAT OUR AIM WAS AND HE RAN
WITH IT, MADE IT HAPPEN.
>> SO THANK FURTHER DISCUSSION
OR FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED D.C. ONE RESOLUTION
ELECTING 2024 2026 MAYOR PRO
TEM AND ESTABLISHING ORDER
OF SUCCESSION FOR ACTING MAYOR
MOVI COUNCIL MEMBER A DISH
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF D.C. ONE
WELL I'LL BECAUSE WELL FOR MY
PART I'LL SAY IT IS IT IS THE
MAYOR HAS LOTS TO LIKE ABOUT IT
BUT BUT IT'S ALSO ONE OF THE
ASPECTS THAT I AM GRATEFUL FOR
IS THAT WELL YOU SERVICES MAYOR
NOT ALONE OF COURSE THERE ARE
MULTIPLE COLLEAGUES HERE AS
WELL BUT NATURALLY NATURALLY
TOO THERE'S OUR INDOMITABLE
MAYOR PRO TEM.
>> I'M DELIGHTED THAT MAYOR
PRATIMA DENHA HAS PROVIDED
EXCELLENT SERVICE TO THE
COUNCIL AS A WHOLE AND TO THE
COMMUNITY AND THE SERVICES
MAYOR PRO TEM.
>> I'M SO GLAD THAT WILL BE
MOVING FORWARD HERE REHABBING
AND THE THE ORDER THE THE ORDER
OF SUCCESSION IS IS INDEED A
THING THERE HAS YOU KNOW,
SOMEONE IS GOING TO BE THE
DESIGNATED SURVIVOR AT SOME
CLOSED SESSION SOMEDAY.
I RECOLLECT SOMETIME IN THE IN
THE LATE TEENS I THINK WE GOT
DOWN TO NUMBER FOUR FOR SIGNING
THINGS AT SOME POINT WHEN WE
HAD TO ACTUALLY PHYSICALLY SIGN
SOMETHING IT WAS IT WAS QUITE A
THING GETTING IF I RECOLLECT IT
WAS MIGHT HAVE BEEN COUNCIL
MEMBER COUNCILMEN WHO HAD TO BE
LIKE SOMETHING HAD TO BE DRIVEN
TO HIS HOUSE TO SIGN ANYWAY
THAT MIGHT I MIGHT BE INCORRECT
ABOUT THAT BUT IT'S WELL IT'S
SOMETHING TO NOTE IT'S
OF COURSE LESS USEFUL, LESS A
THING NOW NOW THAT WE HAVE
ELECTRONIC SIGNING'S ALL IN
FAVOR.
>> YEAH.
OPPOSED I MEAN IF I'M GETTING
PUNCHY AT OR FOUR IT'S A NEW
DAY THERE BEING NO FURTHER
BUSINESS.
>> DO WE HAVE A CLOSED SESSION
TODAY MISS?
YES MAYOR.
I'M REQUESTING A CLOSED SESSION
UNDER FCL FIFTEEN POINT TWO SIX
EIGHT SECTION EIGHT ONE E TO
DISCUSS PENDING LITIGATION
SPECIFICALLY JENNIFER ALEKSA AT
ALL THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR CASE
NUMBER TWO COLON TWENTY TWO
DASH CV DASH ONE THREE ZERO
SEVEN THREE PENDING IN THE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT
OF MICHIGAN HAVE A MOTION TO GO
INTO CLOSED SESSION ON THAT
BASIS MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN.
>> SECOND MY COUNSEL MCCONNELL
DISCUSSION ROLL CALL THOUGH
PLEASE STARTING WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER BRAKE'S COUNCIL MEMBER
RIC'S YES TOWNSMAN CORNELL
YEAH.
COUNCIL NERDISH YES.
COUNCILOR HARRISON YES.
COUNCILOR WATSON YES.
COUNCILOR MALIK.
>> YES BECAUSE WE WERE DENHA
YES.
COUNCILOR 01 YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
COUNCILOR ER YES COUNCILOR
ACRON YES.
MOTION IN CLOSED SESSION
HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO GO BACK TO
OPEN SESSION MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA 2ND COUNCILOR
MALIK DISCUSSION ALL FAVOR
POSED WE ARE BACK IN OPEN
SESSION WE HAVE BEFORE THE
REPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS I AM
PLEASED TO APPROVE THE SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
SUCCUBI COUNCILOR DISCUSSION
OF THE CLERK'S REPORT ON FAVOR
POSED.
>> THE CLERK'S REPORT IS A
APPROVED WE HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
NO THANK YOU MAN.
>> IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW WE HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
PLEASE BE BY COUNCILOR
PRONOUNCING IT BY COUNCILOR
BRIGGS DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED